The Federal Reserve Act was the most important legislation of the Wilson era and one of the most important pieces of legislation in the history of the United States.  Arthur S. Link, "Woodrow Wilson" in Henry F. Graff ed., The Presidents: A Reference History (2002) p 370   Wilson had to outmaneuver bankers and enemies of banks, North and South, Democrats and Republicans to secure passage of the Federal Reserve system in late 1913. [Link 1954 pp 43-53; Link 1956 pp 199-240]  He took a plan that had been designed by conservative Republicans led by Nelson W. Aldrich and banker Paul M. Warburg and passed it. However, Wilson had to find a middle ground between those who supported the Aldrich Plan and those who opposed it, including the powerful agrarian wing of the party, led by William Jennings Bryan, which strenuously denounced banks and Wall Street. They wanted a government-owned central bank which could print paper money whenever Congress wanted.  Wilson’s plan still allowed the large banks to have important influence, but Wilson went beyond the Aldrich plan and created a central board made up of persons appointed by the President and approved by Congress who would outnumber the board members who were bankers.  Moreover, Wilson convinced Bryan’s supporters that because Federal Reserve notes were obligations of the government, the plan fit their demands.  Wilson’s plan also decentralized the Federal Reserve system into 12 districts.  This was designed to weaken the influence of the powerful  New York banks, a key demand of Bryan’s allies in the South and West. This decentralization was a key factor in winning the support of Congressman Carter Glass (D-VA) although he objected to making paper currency a federal obligation.  Glass was one of the leaders of the currency reformers in the U.S. House and without his support, any plan was doomed to fail.  The final plan passed, in December 1913, despite opposition by bankers, who felt it gave too much control to Washington, and by some reformers, who felt it allowed bankers to maintain too much power.